content/youtube/index.md, before:

---
title: "YouTube"
bookToc: true
bookComments: false
---

# YouTube

---

## Channel: [DevOps Directive](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC4MdpjzjPuop_qWNAvR23JA)

## Videos:

### **2020-05-07:** [Build a CI/CD Pipeline for Google App Engine Site Using CircleCI [Full Walkthrough]](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=e7K8oUUyv-Q)

{{< youtube e7K8oUUyv-Q >}}

---

### **2020-05-07:** [Build a Password Protected Website with Google App Engine + Identity Aware Proxy [Full Walkthrough]](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jPMWWLf9W-Q)

{{< youtube jPMWWLf9W-Q >}}

---

### **2020-04-09:** [5 YouTube Channels EVERY DevOps Engineer Should Subscribe To!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7NU-DjMYeyk)

{{< youtube 7NU-DjMYeyk >}}

---

### **2020-03-29:** [Website Performance + Load Testing with K6 (k6.io) in 5 MINUTES!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MF2gMZ5aDBQ)

{{< youtube brasMBAezJY >}}

---

### **2020-02-27:** [[Full Workshop] Build a Multi-Step Google Cloud Build Pipeline from Scratch!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MF2gMZ5aDBQ)

{{< youtube MF2gMZ5aDBQ >}}

---

### **2020-02-24:** [[1 HOUR WORKSHOP] Webserver Set-Up Progression (From Localhost to GCP With Caddy Webserver + Docker)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xo_4n2Reh58)

{{< youtube xo_4n2Reh58 >}}

---

### **2020-02-22:** [Creating and Deploying a Website on GCP in 5 MINUTES for FREE! (Hugo Website + Caddy Webserver)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hxTnB_FZpw8)

{{< youtube hxTnB_FZpw8 >}}

---

### **2020-02-16:** [Hello Youtube! (AUDIO & VIDEO generated and uploaded with python)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7CIakJ8PMZs)

{{< youtube 7CIakJ8PMZs >}}

Commit message:

add uptime github action video

content/youtube/index.md, after:

---
title: "YouTube"
bookToc: true
bookComments: false
---

# YouTube

---

## Channel: [DevOps Directive](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC4MdpjzjPuop_qWNAvR23JA)

## Videos:

### **2020-05-07:** [Set up GitHub Actions as a Free Website Uptime Monitor in Just 3 Minutes!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=o5ZLWpvus50)

{{< youtube o5ZLWpvus50 >}}

### **2020-05-07:** [Build a CI/CD Pipeline for Google App Engine Site Using CircleCI [Full Walkthrough]](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=e7K8oUUyv-Q)

{{< youtube e7K8oUUyv-Q >}}

---

### **2020-05-07:** [Build a Password Protected Website with Google App Engine + Identity Aware Proxy [Full Walkthrough]](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jPMWWLf9W-Q)

{{< youtube jPMWWLf9W-Q >}}

---

### **2020-04-09:** [5 YouTube Channels EVERY DevOps Engineer Should Subscribe To!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7NU-DjMYeyk)

{{< youtube 7NU-DjMYeyk >}}

---

### **2020-03-29:** [Website Performance + Load Testing with K6 (k6.io) in 5 MINUTES!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MF2gMZ5aDBQ)

{{< youtube brasMBAezJY >}}

---

### **2020-02-27:** [[Full Workshop] Build a Multi-Step Google Cloud Build Pipeline from Scratch!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MF2gMZ5aDBQ)

{{< youtube MF2gMZ5aDBQ >}}

---

### **2020-02-24:** [[1 HOUR WORKSHOP] Webserver Set-Up Progression (From Localhost to GCP With Caddy Webserver + Docker)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xo_4n2Reh58)

{{< youtube xo_4n2Reh58 >}}

---

### **2020-02-22:** [Creating and Deploying a Website on GCP in 5 MINUTES for FREE! (Hugo Website + Caddy Webserver)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hxTnB_FZpw8)

{{< youtube hxTnB_FZpw8 >}}

---

### **2020-02-16:** [Hello Youtube! (AUDIO & VIDEO generated and uploaded with python)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7CIakJ8PMZs)

{{< youtube 7CIakJ8PMZs >}}
